grep
	-x , --line-regexp
			  Select  only  those  matches  that exactly match the whole line.
              For a regular expression pattern, this  is  like  parenthesizing
              the pattern and then surrounding it with ^ and $.

    -c , --count
              Suppress  normal output; instead print a count of matching lines
              for each input file.  With the -v,  --invert-match  option  (see
              below), count non-matching lines.

       -L, --files-without-match
              Suppress normal output; instead print the  name  of  each  input
              file from which no output would normally have been printed.  The
              scanning will stop on the first match.

       -l, --files-with-matches
              Suppress normal output; instead print the  name  of  each  input
              file  from  which  output would normally have been printed.  The
              scanning will stop on the first match.

       -m NUM, --max-count=NUM
              Stop reading a file after NUM matching lines.  If the  input  is
              standard  input  from a regular file, and NUM matching lines are
              output, grep ensures that the standard input  is  positioned  to
              just  after the last matching line before exiting, regardless of
              the presence of trailing context lines.  This enables a  calling
              process  to resume a search.  When grep stops after NUM matching
              lines, it outputs any trailing context lines.  When  the  -c  or
              --count  option  is  also  used,  grep  does  not output a count
              greater than NUM.  When the -v or --invert-match option is  also
              used, grep stops after outputting NUM non-matching lines.

       -H, --with-filename
              Print the file name for each match.  This is  the  default  when
              there is more than one file to search.

       -n, --line-number
              Prefix each line of output with the 1-based line  number  within
              its input file.

		-A NUM  number of lines to display after found items
		-B NUM  number of lines to display before found items


