tcputils   			  -TCP programming in shell scripts
gtkdialog  			  -shell script GUI maker
aosd_cat 			  -OSD style GUI screen display tool for shell scripts
ARandR     		      -hrm not entirely sure
beep        		  -make pc speaker beep
cfget				  -read values from config files
dmtcp				  -checkpoint/restart linux processis
empty-expect          -runprocesses and apps under pseudo-terminal
envstore    		  -store enviroment variables accross shell processes
fileschanged 		  -command-line app reports when files have been altered!
filetraq     		  -notices if config files change
haserl      		  -small cgi wrapper/scripting program small enuff for embedded devices!
imagemagick  		  -can easily be added to scripts
inotify-tools		  -command-line apps providing simple interface to inotify
iselect    			  -ncurses-based interactive line selection tool
mdm        			  -make parallel shell scripts!
parallel   			  -execute command lines from standard input in parallel
php-cli/php7.0-cli	  -command line interperter for PHP scripting language
posh				  -simple policy compliant shell
reptyr				  -move apps between ptys
rexima				  -mix ncurses and shell scripts
scsh				  -not sure really run scripts like services etc

!! shc !!			  -shell script compiler translates to C even encrypts/adds expiration date to protect og script source(same as dudes prohject weve used?)

shtool				  -???small self contained binary of multiple bahs tools like busybox???

!! ssft  !!			  -shell script frontend tool!!!

systraq 			  -monitor system files and warn when changed
tk8.6				  -write shell script GUI's using Tcl language very robust motif looking gui's
usepackage  		  -utlity to manage enviroment variables from within dotfiles
xpa-tools			  -seemless communication between unix programs X apps,Tcl/Tk apps
xwit				  -simple routines to call some X11 functions
 
!! yad !!			  -create GUI dialogs from shell scripts!!
!! zenity !!		  -display graphical dialog boxes from shell scripts

zsh/zsh-static		  -shell with lots of features and has a static version




